Document Compass Provisioner component (#497)
kyma-incubator/compass: docs/provisioner/08-02-provisioning-gardener.md

---

> title: Provision clusters on GCP, AWS, or AZURE through Gardener

Reviewer: Or just `Provision clusters through Gardener` as you give the providers below?

type: Tutorials
---

> This tutorial shows how to provision clusters with Kyma Runtimes (Runtimes) on Google Cloud Platform (GCP), Microsoft Azure, and Amazon Web Services (AWS) using [Gardener](https://dashboard.garden.canary.k8s.ondemand.com).

Reviewer: this `Kyma Runtimes (Runtimes)` seems unclear here but maybe just for me

## Prerequisites

<div tabs name="Prerequisites" group="Provisioning-Gardener">
  <details>

>   <summary>

Reviewer: I think you should add `label` as well here as you have 2 toggles in the doc so they make a set -> [link](https://kyma-project.io/community/guidelines/content/#toggle-toggle-writing-rules)

  GCP
  </summary>
  
  - Existing project on GCP
  - Existing project on Gardener
  - Service account for GCP with the following roles:
      * Service Account Admin
      * Service Account Token Creator
      * Service Account User
      * Compute Admin

>   - Key generated for your service account downloaded in the `json` format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Key generated for your service account downloaded in the JSON format
```

  </details>
  
  <details>
  <summary>
  Azure
  </summary>
  
  - Existing project on Gardener

>   - Valid Azure Subscription with the Contributor role and the Subscription ID 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Valid Azure subscription with the Contributor role and the subscription ID 
```

>   - Existing App registration on Azure and its following credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Existing App registration on Azure with the following credentials:
```

    * Application ID (Client ID)
    * Directory ID (Tenant ID)
    * Client secret (application password)

  </details>
  
  <details>

>   <summary>

Reviewer: & label so `<summary label="aws">` (here and everywhere else where that applies)

  AWS
  </summary>
  
  - Existing project on Gardener
  - AWS account with added AWS IAM policy for Gardener
  - Access key created for your AWS user with the following credentials:
    * Secrete Access Key
    * Access Key ID
  

>   > **NOTE:** To get the AWS IAM policy, access your project on Gardener, navigate to the **Secrets** tab, click on the help icon on the AWS card, and copy the `json` policy. 

Reviewer: I'm not correcting `json` formatting here as I am not sure if that is how it is written on Gardener UI or sth so I leave it to you.

    
  </details>
</div>

## Provision Kyma Runtime through Gardener

<div tabs name="Provisioning" group="Provisioning-Gardener">
  <details>
  <summary>
  GCP
  </summary>

  To provision Kyma Runtime on GCP, follow these steps:

  1. Access your project on [Gardener](https://dashboard.garden.canary.k8s.ondemand.com).

  2. In the **Secrets** tab, add a new Google Secret for GCP. Use the `json` file with the service account key you downloaded from GCP.

  3. In the **Members** tab, create a service account for Gardener. 

>   4. Download the service account configuration (`kubeconfig.yaml`) and use it to create a Secret in the `compass-system` Namespace with the key `credentials` and the value encoded with base64.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. Download the service account configuration (`kubeconfig.yaml`) and use it to create a Secret in the `compass-system` Namespace with the `credentials` key and the value encoded with base64.
```

  5. Make a call to the Runtime Provisioner to create a cluster on GCP.

      > **NOTE:** To access the Runtime Provisioner, forward the port on which the GraphQL Server is listening.

>     

Reviewer: Again 2 notes next to each other - maybe you can mix them into one?

                nodeCount: 3
                machineType: "n1-standard-4"
                region: "europe-west4"
                provider: "gcp"
                seed: "gcp-eu1"
                targetSecret: "{GARDENER_GCP_SECRET_NAME}"
                workerCidr: "10.250.0.0/19"
                autoScalerMin: 2
                autoScalerMax: 4
                maxSurge: 4
                maxUnavailable: 1
                providerSpecificConfig: { gcpConfig: { zone: "europe-west4-a" } }
              }
            }
            kymaConfig: { version: "1.5", modules: Backup }
            credentials: {
              secretName: "{GARDENER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CONFIGURATION_SECERT_NAME}" 
            }
          }
        )
      }
      ```
    
      A successful call returns the ID of the provisioning operation:
    
      ```graphql
      {
        "data": {
          "provisionRuntime": "7a8dc760-812c-4a35-a5fe-656a648ee2c8"
        }
      }
      ```
    
  </details>

  <details>
  <summary>
  Azure
  </summary>

  To provision Kyma Runtime on Azure, follow these steps:

  1. Access your project on [Gardener](https://dashboard.garden.canary.k8s.ondemand.com).

>   2. In the **Secrets** tab, add a new Azure Secret. Use the credentials you got from Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. In the **Secrets** tab, add a new Azure Secret. Use the credentials you received from Azure.
```

  3. In the **Members** tab, create a service account for Gardener. 

>   4. Download the service account configuration (`kubeconfig.yaml`) and use it to create a Secret in the `compass-system` Namespace with the key `credentials` and the value encoded with base64.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. Download the service account configuration (`kubeconfig.yaml`) and use it to create a Secret in the `compass-system` Namespace with the `credentials` key and the value encoded with base64.
```

                nodeCount: 3
                machineType: "Standard_D2_v3"
                region: "westeurope"
                provider: "azure"
                seed: "az-eu1"
                targetSecret: "{GARDENER_AZURE_SECRET_NAME}"
                workerCidr: "10.250.0.0/19"
                autoScalerMin: 2
                autoScalerMax: 4
                maxSurge: 4
                maxUnavailable: 1
                providerSpecificConfig: {  azureConfig: { vnetCidr: "10.250.0.0/19" } }
              }
            }
            kymaConfig: { version: "1.5", modules: Backup }
            credentials: { secretName: "{GARDENER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CONFIGURATION_SECRET_NAME}" }
          }
        )
      }
      ```
    
      A successful call returns the ID of the provisioning operation:
    
      ```graphql
      {
        "data": {
          "provisionRuntime": "af0c8122-27ee-4a36-afa5-6e26c39929f2"
        }
      }
      ```
    
  </details>
  
  <details>
  <summary>
  AWS
  </summary>
      
  To provision Kyma Runtime on AWS, follow these steps:
    
  1. Access your project on [Gardener](https://dashboard.garden.canary.k8s.ondemand.com).
  

>   2. In the **Secrets** tab, add a new AWS Secret. Use the credentials you got from AWS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. In the **Secrets** tab, add a new AWS Secret. Use the credentials you received from AWS.
```

    
  3. In the **Members** tab, create a service account for Gardener. 

>   4. Download the service account configuration (`kubeconfig.yaml`) and use it to create a Secret in the `compass-system` Namespace with the key `credentials` and the value encoded with base64.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  4. Download the service account configuration (`kubeconfig.yaml`) and use it to create a Secret in the `compass-system` Namespace with the `credentials` key and the value encoded with base64.
```
